[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Jonny Enoch and this
is "Mystery Teachings."
Have you ever looked
into a night sky,
mesmerized by that beautiful
sea of sparkling lights,
or made a wish upon
a falling star?
Our ancestors knew the sky was
the realm of the almighty gods
and heavenly potentates.
The powerful movement
of celestial bodies
across the heavens, personified
in the solar pageantry,
became the fabric of our lives.
This fascination
with heavenly motion
taught us how to tell time.
And it was the root
of the creation
of the symbols for the
Arabic numbers used
to this day in mathematics.
In fact, the word "algebra"
comes from the Arabic word
"al-jabr," which most of the
brightest stars have Arabic
names.
As with Arabic numerals,
almost every major religion
and all of our myths and legends
are based on astrotheology.
This all seems to be under the
jurisdiction of the heavens
and stars.
It's easy to understand how
celestial mechanics affect
our lives on Earth through
electromagnetic energy
and gravity.
Consider what the moon
cycles do, for an instance,
with the tides of the oceans.
Since people consist
of 76% water,
it is no surprise those affected
by lunar cycles of the moon
are called lunatics.
If you check crime
statistics on a full moon,
it will reveal an increase in
reports of irrational behavior.
Also, one complete cycle of
the moon around the Earth
takes roughly 29 days.
This is nearly the
same period of time
as the menses, or
menstrual cycle, of women.
In esoteric science,
it is taught
new endeavors should always
begin on a new moon, which
is the two-week period for when
the moon grows from blackness
to the silvery shining orb
known as the full moon.
This is a positive time of
energy known as the waxing moon
period.
On the other hand, during
a waning moon period,
one should avoid
making major decisions
or starting new projects,
as this period being
the time of a full
moon to a new moon,
it is also a time of
decreasing energy.
The waning moon period
is a time for reflection
and tending to the proverbial
seeds of new endeavors planted
during the waxing moon period.
The waning moon period is
also a time for cleaning up
before starting new endeavors.
The last three days of
a waning moon period,
just before the
new moon, is also
a time of extremely low energy.
When we study the origins
of Greek mythology,
we return to the account found
in the "Theogony" of Hesiod.
This 4,000-year-old classical
Greek text was lovingly
preserved by Bullfinch.
It is from the seventh
and eighth centuries BCE.
This story was written
long before Greece
became a great empire.
The "Theogony" of
Hesiod introduces us
to Greek gods like Zeus,
Hera, Apollo, and Aries.
The incredible
part of this story
is we learn of the legend of
Hesiod, a simple goat-herder
who couldn't read or write.
And he had an
encounter with three--
some say nine-- otherworldly,
angelic, nymph-like beings
known as the Muses.
The main three were named
The Good, The Beautiful,
and The True, which we get
from the Socratic triad.
Not only did these muses glow
when they approached you,
they floated off the ground,
and they appeared and reappeared
at will.
After startling poor
old Hesiod, they
told him to record all
they said and aided him
in the writing of his
encounters with them.
The Muses even taught
Hesiod about different gods
or extraterrestrials
inhabiting the heavens,
telling him there were
innumerable Earth-like planets,
and all of them
had their own gods.
But Zeus was the ruler of Earth.
They told him the astronomical
coordinates of heaven,
where Zeus dwelt.
Zeus, of course,
was also known as Jupiter,
the ruler of Cassiopeia.
The Muses also
talked about how long
it would take for Hephaestus's
anvil to fall from the heavens
to Earth, and if you were to
drop it off his porch, exactly
where it would land.
This story has
fascinating clues in it
about the origins of humanity
and the personification
of astronomical observations
in our religious traditions.
Today we like to say the
Seven Wonders of the World
are the Taj Mahal in
India, Colosseum in Rome,
Chichen Itza in Mexico,
Machu Picchu in Peru,
Christ the Redeemer in
Brazil, Petra in Jordan,
and the Great Wall of China.
But these are meaningless
compared to the Seven Wonders
of the Ancient World, which
held great significance
to the masters of antiquity and
were mapped out to the seven
planetary bodies visible to the
naked eye, which, of course,
they were the Sun, Moon,
Mercury, Venus, Mars,
Jupiter, and Saturn.
These also correspond
to the Bible's Seven
Seals of Revelation and
the seven churches of Asia.
Of the Seven Wonders
of the Ancient World,
the Colossus of
Rhodes was the sun.
The Temple of Artemis or Diana
of Ephesus, near Kusadasi,
in Turkey, was the moon.
The Temple of Artemis was one of
the most beautiful of the seven
ancient wonders.
It had a replica of the
universe found within.
The Hanging Gardens
of Babylon was Venus.
The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus,
in Turkey, was Mars.
The Statue of Zeus at
Olympia was Jupiter.
The Lighthouse of Pharos,
in Alexandria, was Saturn.
Finally, the Great Pyramid
of Giza was Mercury.
And it is the only one of
the Seven Ancient Wonders
that is still standing today.
To understand the significance
of these great monuments,
you must remember
Gaia, or Mother Earth,
is a living being with
a breathable atmosphere
in her lungs.
And her rivers and oceans
are her bloodstream.
Gaia's chakras spread out
along our various ley lines
and vortices of the Earth.
Therefore, it is no
surprise that there
are places of great energy
mapped to the heavens,
such as the Giza Plateau,
which mimics the Milky Way
galaxy, having three pyramids
aligned to the three stars
forming the belt in the
constellation of Orion
the Hunter.
To the ancients,
this association
with our planetary bodies
held great importance
in our daily lives and
our religious practices.
You find that in Judaism, with
the menorah, or the branches
of the candelabrum, as there
are three candles on each side,
with the one in the
middle being the sun,
which is lit last so that
it does not cast a shadow.
In magical traditions,
they uphold a teaching
that certain
practices must be done
during the planetary
hours in a day
or the days of the
week associated
with their movements.
I'll use the French counterparts
of the English names
for the days of the week to
show their planetary association
with the gods.
First of all, let's
start with Monday
being the lunar day,
which is lundi in French.
Tuesday is Mars day, or mardi.
Wednesday is Mercury
day, or mercredi.
Thursday or Thor's day, the day
of Jupiter, is jeudi in French.
Friday, which is
named after Frigga,
the Norse version of the goddess
Venus, is vendredi in French.
Saturday, or Saturn
day, is samedi.
And finally, Sunday, or the
day of the sun, is dimanche.
And while our major
religions might
serve different holy days,
such as how Judaism honors
the Sabbath, which
is the day of Saturn,
modern Christianity, like the
Mithraism practice in Rome,
has a Sun God, or a son of God,
and goes to church on Sunday.
Islam has traditionally been
thought of as a religion that
excludes feminine symbolism
but, actually, their holy day
is Friday, or the day
for the goddess Venus.
The color green is
not only traditionally
sacred and important to
Venus, but it was also
important to the
prophet, which should
come of no surprise
to anyone that we find
the color green on many
mosques and on the flags
of Islamic countries
like Pakistan.
Also, if you look at the
crescent and the scimitar that
has been associated
with Islam, it
was also used on the flag
of the Ottoman Empire.
Many incorrectly assumed
that it is the moon,
but actually it is
Venus, which appears
like a crescent
in the night sky.
The smaller star beside
it is the first star
to appear alongside it.
In occult traditions, the
macrocosmic association
of the planetary energies is
also found in the human body
and mapped out into the
palmistry of your hand.
This is also the case when
performing certain magic spells
that require your hands to be
positioned in a certain way.
How we look at this is that
your thumb area is Venus,
Jupiter is your pointer finger,
Saturn is your middle finger,
Apollo is the ring finger, and
Mercury as your pinky finger.
This is why, if you
point at someone,
it is a powerful
gesture of sending
a commanding
Jupiter-like energy.
Or when you give someone the
middle finger for an instance,
you're actually banishing them
away with Saturnal energy.
But when we look up
at the night sky,
there's a lot more going on
with our celestial mechanics
than just the movement
of planetary bodies,
as we can see around 88
constellations, which are now
easier than ever to observe
with sky-mapping apps
on our mobile phones and
different online sky charts.
The science for looking at
the movements and positions
of celestial objects
is called astrology,
which comes from the Greek words
"astro," meaning "the stars,"
and the "logy" part comes
from "logos," meaning
"knowledge" or "science."
Today, this has
evolved into astronomy,
which, again, we derive from
the Greek "astro" for the stars
and "nomy," meaning
"measurements or arrangements
of the celestial bodies."
[GRACEFUL MUSIC]
Our fascination with the heavens
goes back to ancient Egypt,
the Persian Magi,
who called themselves
the stargazers, the Phoenicians,
the Chaldeans, the Hindus,
and the Chinese.
All of these groups
had their own zodiacs
that they would use to
calculate and observe
the movements of the heavens.
The Native Americans in
North and South America
had their own understanding
of the heavenly bodies.
The 12 constellations, which
come from a Latin word,
"constellatio," meaning
"a set of stars,"
are just the groups
of stars found
in the circular path of our
sun, that it moves along
throughout the year.
This is where the ancient
zodiac of the Greeks
came from, which is
derived from "zodiakos,"
meaning "a circle of animals"
or "the little animals."
The association of the
zodiac with 12 creatures
was not only due to their
appearance in the sky
but also a symbolic
personification of how
intense the sun was as it passed
through its various houses
in our elliptical orbit.
Some have imagined that
this knowledge came
from shepherds a few
thousand years ago,
who were minding their
flocks in the field,
looking up at the
stars at night.
But this is highly unlikely.
It's much like how
alchemy is one of the most
ancient of sciences
on the planet
and comes from our prehistoric
civilizations like Atlantis.
Both sciences are probably
millions of years old.
Astrology has been traditionally
thought to go hand in hand
with alchemy, better
known as astro-alchemy.
And many esotericists believe
once we combine these two
sets of knowledge, they
can help restore us
to our original state
before the cataclysms.
The Greeks split up the
zodiac into 12 sections,
with each having 30 degrees in
length and 16 degrees in width.
These are what we call houses.
And the sun makes
an annual journey
through each of
these, where we can
find the various creatures bound
by rectangles in their star
groups or constellations.
I've always been a
big believer that we
need to treat our religions
like a science, which
we know they have many
incredible truths in them to be
discovered, for those
with eyes to see.
We find this is true of not
only the ancient Egyptians, who
adorn their buildings
with glorious reliefs
of solar pageantry like
we find with Nut, the sky
goddess, which, of
course, is the Milky Way.
We also find this was true
of the ancient Persians, who
encoded their religions
with the solar mysteries,
as we learn about Mithra
or, even more anciently,
Zurvan, the lion-headed
god, being the sun in Leo.
When we divide up the
12 signs of the zodiac
with the movements of the sun
in the northern hemisphere,
the first six
signs of the zodiac
are considered to be
benevolent and positive signs
because that's the time of
the year when the sun is
moving into the summer months,
and it is warm in those months.
The signs in the
second half of the year
are negative because that was
when the sun was traveling
through the southern
hemisphere, which
made it colder and
darker in the winter
months for the Greeks, the
Egyptians, and the Persians.
When we look at the back of
Hathor's Temple in Dendera,
Egypt, we find one of the oldest
circular zodiacs in the world.
And it probably
came from Ptolemy,
who was the best friend and
general of Alexander the Great.
This place was connected
to Greco-Roman times.
Today, we can only find a copy
of this zodiac on the roof,
as the original was moved
to the Louvre, in Paris,
as today, the Egyptians
aren't very happy about that.
But here we find a circular
formation of the constellations
similar to the Greek ones, with
the hieroglyphics or letters
in their ascending order.
Another interesting system that
involves 12 signs of the zodiac
is the Chinese
zodiac, which moves
in the 24 cardinal directions
associated with the lunar
calendar.
This is also associated with the
elements of fire, earth, metal,
and water.
And because of this,
the year is divided up
into a yin, which is the
end of an odd number that
is represented with the
feminine nature of passiveness
or darkness, and then
there are the yang years,
which are masculine, positive,
and productive years,
according to their system.
The significance of the
constellations are as follows.
We start out with
Aries, which was once
the first constellation of
the zodiac but now the second.
It is known by the
two bright stars that
are four degrees apart and
has the two horns of the ram.
In the Hebrew zodiac,
it is assigned to Simeon
or sometimes Gad, one of
the 12 tribes of Israel.
Then we move on to
Taurus, the bull,
as this is the constellation
in Greek mythology
that's associated with
Zeus and the Pleiades,
and it is near the
constellation of Orion.
Even in the Old
Testament, we learn
from the story about the
Egyptian, Job, who, by the way,
scholars believe was the Fourth
Dynasty King of Egypt, Khufu,
and was someone who suffered
faithfully with many trials
and tribulations in his life.
But there is a reference
to Job and Orion
when it says in the
Bible, "Canst thou
bind the sweet influences
of the Pleiades,
or loose the bands of Orion?"
Taurus the bull is
always portrayed
as charging towards Orion
with his horns facing down.
His face is composed of
the five bright stars,
which form a V known as Hades.
And the brightest of all
these is Aldebaran, which
was used by ancient navigators.
In the Hebrew zodiac, Taurus
is assigned to Joseph.
That brings us to
Gemini, or the twins,
which are composed of two bright
stars called Castor and Pollux.
These are about 4 and
1/2 degrees apart.
In Greek mythology,
they are said
to be the twin sons that
Jupiter had with Leda.
And on the Hebrew zodiac,
they are assigned to Benjamin.
Then we arrive at
Cancer, or the Crab.
This constellation is
composed of two stars.
And in some Eastern
systems, they
are two figures of,
like, animals or donkeys.
The Hebrews assigned
it to Isaachar.
After that, we have
Leo the lion king,
which is called the
Sole House of the Sun,
as it marks the
arrival of the summer
solstice in the northern
hemisphere, when
the sun is at its hottest.
The lion's mane is also
symbolic of the coronas
of the sun or the sun rays.
Leo is composed of
stars, but his body
forms a sickle when we look
at two of its brightest stars,
which are Regulus and Denebola.
One star in the head of
the line, and the other
is at the tail of the lion.
Leo is very important to the
Mysteries for many reasons.
According to Masonic lore,
it is the sacred position
of King Solomon's temple,
and it has a connection
to the Sphinx on
the Giza Plateau.
In the Hebrew zodiac,
we can associate this
with the Lion of Judah.
From there, we reach
Virgo the Virgin.
In the Egyptian zodiac, this
is the beautiful mother goddess
known as Isis.
In her left hand, she's
holding ripe wheat
that is marked by a
bright star called Spica.
In the Hebrew zodiac,
Virgo is associated
with Naphtali, which was a
tree bearing good branches.
Then we move to Libra,
which, since ancient times,
has been represented by a woman.
There's no human figure for
Libra in the Arabian zodiac
however, as it is
prohibited in the Koran
to make a human
representation of the divine.
This is also the
case for our zodiac,
as according to the author of
"Stellar Theology and Masonic
Astrology," Robert Hewitt Brown.
He tells us that we
probably received our zodiac
from the Arab astronomers.
The Hebrew association
with Libra is Asher.
That brings us to
Scorpio, which is composed
of bright stars that
resembles a kite
with the tail of a scorpion.
The Hebrew zodiac association
to Scorpio is the tribe of Dan.
Then we move into Sagittarius.
He is the great archer,
sometimes depicted
as a centaur that is
half-horse and half-man.
At the center, he's holding
a bow and shooting an arrow.
This constellation
is easily identified
with his inverted dipper
as one of the largest
in the southern area of the sky,
formed by several bright stars.
Sagittarius also appears in the
Egyptian and Indian zodiacs.
Then we move on to
Capricorn, which is the goat.
And it is connected to
the winter solstice,
being composed of
51 small stars.
In the Asiatic systems, it
was known as the Southern
Gate of the Sun.
After that, we find
ourselves in Aquarius,
which is sometimes portrayed
as a man or a woman
holding a water pitcher,
bringing the waters of spring.
When you look at the water
that's pouring out from the urn
that Aquarius is holding,
which, by the way,
are sometimes called the
waters of eternal life,
this is the path of the
sun or the Solar Messiah.
In the Hebrew zodiac,
Aquarius is represented
by the tribe of Reuben.
And finally, Pisces is
represented by the two fish.
In the Hebrew
zodiac, this is found
with the fishers of Simeon.
In these teachings, we discover
that our sun makes a round trip
around the zodiac and returns
to where it started every year.
This is called the
vernal equinox.
But each time it
does, it comes up
just a little bit short of
completing a full journey
in that period of time.
So it crosses the equator
just behind the sign
of where it started.
And because of that, when
the sign moves 30 degrees,
it loses one degree
every 72 years.
The number 72 is very
important to the Mysteries.
It is mentioned all throughout
our ancient religions,
with references to the 72
names of god in the Kabbalah
or the 72 angels of the Tarot
and the Shem HaMephorash,
the 72 steps on
Jacob's ladder, the 72
languages at the Tower of Babel,
the 72 disciples of Confucius,
and the list goes on and on.
One of the most
important observations
of the ancient peoples
with this process
is something known as the
precession of the equinoxes,
a gravity-induced, slow
and continuous change
in the orientation of the
Earth's axial rotation.
Plato called this
the Great Year.
Not only do we know
the Earth moves
through space with a
wobble, but a full cycle
of the gradual shifting of
the Earth's axial rotation
can last approximately
25,772 years.
That's approximately
26,000 years.
Each age is determined
by how the sun stays
in a certain age or
constellation for about
2,160 years.
Therefore, it was personified
with various characteristics,
as you will find within the
concept of the Solar Messiah.
We get a great example of this
if we go back to the Moses
story in the Old Testament.
Here we learn about Moses
coming down the mountain
with the Ten Commandments.
He sees the Israelites
have fashioned
an idol in the shape of a golden
calf from the spoils of Egypt.
And he becomes furious
with anger and orders
them to destroy it.
The destruction
of the golden calf
is symbolic of the completion or
the ending of the Taurean age.
And, of course, we know that
Taurus is the great bull, which
we also found was
relevant to the Hindu age,
or what we call the
Hindu reign, which is
why cows are sacred in India.
This is also where Oxford
University comes from,
as the Apis bull was also
sacred to the Egyptians.
When this age was ending, the
Persian Zoroastrian solar god
Mithra ripped the
head off of a bull,
just like Moses destroying
the golden calf.
After he destroys the
calf, we arrive into Aries,
with the Moses story
transitioning to the ram's
horn, or the shofar horn.
During the age of
Taurus, the Solar Messiah
was Dionysus, or Bacchus.
It was called the Good Shepherd.
That brings us to our current
age of Pisces, where Jesus
is the Son of God, or a sun
god that multiplied two fish
and encountered two fishermen.
Jesus is referred to as
being a fisher of men.
Also, when Christians
observed Good Friday,
they were told that
they can only eat fish
and not other types of meat.
We also find this
symbolism on one
of the oldest Christian
temples in the world,
on the floor mosaic
of Megiddo, Israel.
I've also found these fish
mosaics and other places,
such as in the ancient
city of Ephesus, in Turkey.
Jesus tells us in
the Bible that he
will be with us until the end
of the eon, which we know,
of course, is just
the end of the age.
If we look at Luke 22:10
in the King James Bible,
the disciples say to
him, Master, Master,
where will you be at
the last Passover?
And Jesus answers them
saying, meet me at the house--
which, of course, is
an astrological term--
with the man with
the water pitcher.
So who is the man with the
water pitcher, you might ask?
Of course, it's Aquarius,
bringing the waters of spring.
The story of each Solar
Messiah is seeded here
by the mystery schools
and plays a different role
according to the age we are in.
Since Jesus is
leaving this age, we
are moving into the
Age of Aquarius.
So we might ask ourselves
what might the characteristics
of the new Solar Messiah be?
Let's just think for a moment,
hypothetically speaking,
what would one of these
world saviors look
like if they came back today
with the characteristics
of being the Aquarian Messiah?
Well, if we look at the
traditional descriptions
of Aquarius, we would
say that maybe they
were androgynous or a type
of ET from the stars that
is born around the
winter solstice,
from artificial insemination.
Being the water
bearer, maybe they
could help us fix the
world's water supplies
and clean up our oceans.
Maybe they will be
personified as having
12 scientists around them
instead of disciples.
And if they are
persecuted and die,
the modern version
of this story would
be that they were
resurrected after three days,
and we injected them full of
peptides, electrical nerve
stimulation, and laser
therapy directed at the brain
to bring them back to life.
Well, these ages have been
encoded all around us,
for those with eyes to see.
If you go to the
Hoover Dam in Nevada,
you will see that there's all
sorts of esoteric symbolism
there, with the two
angels at the back,
and there is a full map of the
precession of the equinoxes
or the cycles of ages.
Another example
we get of this is
from esoteric
authors Jay Weidner
and the late Vincent Bridges,
in their fascinating book
called "The Mysteries of
the Great Cross of Hendaye,"
where they revealed an encoded
message hidden in a cross found
in Southern France
that displayed
astrological and alchemical
connections to our great cycles
and changes on Earth that will
happen with our sun and weather
patterns.
They also tied this to the work
of the 20th century alchemist
Fulcanelli, who revealed
these messages were also
encoded into the
cathedrals around Europe,
including Notre Dame in Paris.
Paracelcus once
told us, "The body
comes from the elements,
the soul from the stars,
and the spirit from God.
All that the intellect
can conceive of
comes from the stars or
the spirits of the stars,
rather than the material
constellations."
Therefore, it is
not hard to see how
almost every major
religion in the world
is based on astrotheology.
Astrotheology can be used
as an ancient roadmap
to find ourselves home.
It is clear that the initiates
of the mystery schools, knowing
the Atlantean or prehistoric
secrets of astro-alchemy
left behind various
signs and clues for us
in plain sight about
the mystery of the ages.
I'm Jonny Enoch, and thanks for
watching "Mystery Teachings."